README.md, before:

# PageNexus - Smart Pagination Extension

## Extension Submission Info

### Summary (max 250 characters)
Paginates long articles using Readability.js, optimizing content for Firefox's AI sidebar by reducing page context and preventing AI character limit errors.

### Description
PageNexus extracts and paginates web articles using Mozilla's Readability.js library, providing a clean, distraction-free reading experience.

**Key Features:**
- **Smart Content Extraction:** Uses Readability.js to extract the main article, removing ads, sidebars, and other distractions.
- **Intelligent Pagination:** Divides long content into manageable pages while respecting HTML element boundaries (paragraphs, headings).
- **AI Sidebar Optimization:** Limits content sent to Firefox's native AI, preventing 400 errors on large pages.
- **Clean Reading Format:** Displays content with readable styling—serif font, good spacing, single-column layout.
- **Easy Navigation:** Simple "Next Page" and "Previous Page" buttons, plus an option to restore the original view.

**Configurable Settings:**
- Characters per page (default: 2500)
- AI character limit (default: 10,000)

Perfect for users who want to summarize long articles using Firefox's AI sidebar without running into character limit issues.

---

## 1. Purpose

This extension reduces page context for use with Firefox's AI sidebar.

## 2. Build

To generate the ZIP file for submission to Mozilla Add-ons:

```bash
./build.sh
```

This will create a `pagenexus-vX.X.X.zip` file ready for upload.

## 2. Functional Requirements

### 2.1. Main Content Extraction
The extension uses Mozilla's Readability.js library to parse the page and extract the main article. This ensures automatic removal of most peripheral content.

### 2.2. Pagination of Extracted Content
The clean content returned by Readability.js is divided into pages. Pagination is based on a configurable character count but respects HTML element integrity (paragraphs, headings), avoiding breaks in the middle of them.

### 2.3. Clean Reading Format
Paginated content is displayed with simple, readable styling (serif font, good spacing, single-column layout) to optimize the reading experience.

### 2.4. Navigation
The interface provides "Next Page" and "Previous Page" buttons, plus an option to restore the original page view.

## 3. Settings

Users can configure the following items through the extension's options page:

*   **Characters per Page:** A numeric value that guides the smart pagination logic.
*   **AI Character Limit:** Maximum character limit when sending content to Firefox's native AI (default: 10,000). Prevents 400 errors and other limits when summarizing large pages.

Settings are saved locally in the browser using the `browser.storage` API.

## 4. Portability

The code is written using WebExtensions APIs, facilitating future adaptation to other browsers such as Google Chrome and Microsoft Edge with minimal source code changes.

## 5. File Structure and Key Components

The extension consists of the following main files:

*   **`manifest.json`**: The extension manifest file, defining metadata, permissions (including `storage` for settings and `tabs` for page URL access), and content script injection (`Readability.js`, `text_limiter.js`, and `content_script.js`) and styles (`reader.css`).
*   **`Readability.js`**: External library used for main page content extraction, replicating Firefox's "Reader Mode" functionality.
*   **`text_limiter.js`**: Utility for intelligently truncating text, limiting content size sent to Firefox's native AI. Keeps complete paragraphs when possible.
*   **`content_script.js`**: The main script injected into web pages. It coordinates content extraction via Readability, pagination, UI injection, and navigation logic.
*   **`options.html`**: The UI for extension settings, allowing users to define characters per page and AI limit.
*   **`options.js`**: Script managing options page logic, saving and loading user preferences via `browser.storage`.
*   **`options.css`**: Basic styles for the options page.
*   **`reader.css`**: Stylesheet dedicated to formatting extracted content in reading mode, ensuring a clean and focused visual experience.

## 6. Local Testing

### 6.1. Load the Extension in Firefox

1. **Open Firefox**
2. **Type in the address bar:** `about:debugging#/runtime/this-firefox`
3. **Click "Load Temporary Add-on..."**
4. **Navigate to the folder** containing the extension files
5. **Select the file** `manifest.json`
6. The extension will be temporarily loaded

### 6.2. Configure the Extension

1. On the `about:debugging` page, click **"Inspect"** next to the PageNexus extension
2. Or click the extensions icon in the toolbar and select **"Manage Extension"**
3. Click **"Options"** or **"Preferences"**
4. Configure:
   - **Characters per page:** 2500 (default) or adjust as preferred
   - **AI character limit:** 10000 (default) or adjust as needed

### 6.3. Test Features

#### Test Pagination
1. Open a long article (e.g., Wikipedia article)
2. The extension should automatically extract and paginate the content
3. Use "Next" and "Previous" buttons to navigate
4. Click "Restore Original" to return to the original page

#### Test with Firefox Native AI
1. Ensure Firefox's native AI is enabled
2. Open a long article
3. Activate PageNexus to paginate the content
4. Use Firefox's AI sidebar to summarize the current page
5. Content should be limited to the current page size

### 6.4. Debugging

**View extension logs:**
- Open Browser Console: `Ctrl+Shift+J` (Windows/Linux) or `Cmd+Shift+J` (Mac)
- Filter by `[PageNexus]` to see only extension logs

**Reload after changes:**
1. Go back to `about:debugging#/runtime/this-firefox`
2. Click **"Reload"** next to the extension
3. Or press `Ctrl+R` on the debugging page

### 6.5. Test Different Scenarios

| Scenario | Article Size | Expected Behavior |
|----------|--------------|-------------------|
| Small article | < 2,500 characters | No pagination, simple reading mode |
| Medium article | 2,500 - 10,000 characters | Paginated, AI receives full content |
| Large article | > 10,000 characters | Paginated, AI receives truncated content |
| Very large article | > 50,000 characters | Paginated, AI receives first ~10k characters |

### 6.6. Common Issues

**Extension won't load:**
- Check if `manifest.json` is correct
- Look for errors in the debugging console

**Pagination not working:**
- Check if the page has content extractable by Readability
- Some pages are not compatible (e.g., complex SPAs)

**AI still returns 400 error:**
- Reduce character limit in settings
- Try with a smaller page or navigate to a specific page

Commit message:

feat: add auto-copy to clipboard with toast notification
- Add automatic clipboard copy when navigating between pages
- Show toast notification in top-right corner confirming copy
- Add clipboardWrite permission to manifest
- Implement fallback using execCommand for older browsers
- Update README with new Auto-Copy to Clipboard feature
- Bump version to 0.3.0

README.md, after:

# PageNexus - Smart Pagination Extension

## Extension Submission Info

### Summary (max 250 characters)
Paginates long articles using Readability.js, optimizing content for Firefox's AI sidebar by reducing page context and preventing AI character limit errors.

### Description
PageNexus extracts and paginates web articles using Mozilla's Readability.js library, providing a clean, distraction-free reading experience.

**Key Features:**
- **Smart Content Extraction:** Uses Readability.js to extract the main article, removing ads, sidebars, and other distractions.
- **Intelligent Pagination:** Divides long content into manageable pages while respecting HTML element boundaries (paragraphs, headings).
- **Auto-Copy to Clipboard:** Automatically copies the current page content to the clipboard when navigating between pages, making it easy to paste into AI assistants.
- **AI Sidebar Optimization:** Limits content sent to Firefox's native AI, preventing 400 errors on large pages.
- **Clean Reading Format:** Displays content with readable styling—serif font, good spacing, single-column layout.
- **Easy Navigation:** Simple "Next Page" and "Previous Page" buttons, plus an option to restore the original view.

**Configurable Settings:**
- Characters per page (default: 2500)
- AI character limit (default: 10,000)

Perfect for users who want to summarize long articles using Firefox's AI sidebar without running into character limit issues.

---

## 1. Purpose

This extension reduces page context for use with Firefox's AI sidebar.

## 2. Build

To generate the ZIP file for submission to Mozilla Add-ons:

```bash
./build.sh
```

This will create a `pagenexus-vX.X.X.zip` file ready for upload.

## 2. Functional Requirements

### 2.1. Main Content Extraction
The extension uses Mozilla's Readability.js library to parse the page and extract the main article. This ensures automatic removal of most peripheral content.

### 2.2. Pagination of Extracted Content
The clean content returned by Readability.js is divided into pages. Pagination is based on a configurable character count but respects HTML element integrity (paragraphs, headings), avoiding breaks in the middle of them.

### 2.3. Clean Reading Format
Paginated content is displayed with simple, readable styling (serif font, good spacing, single-column layout) to optimize the reading experience.

### 2.4. Navigation
The interface provides "Next Page" and "Previous Page" buttons, plus an option to restore the original page view.

## 3. Settings

Users can configure the following items through the extension's options page:

*   **Characters per Page:** A numeric value that guides the smart pagination logic.
*   **AI Character Limit:** Maximum character limit when sending content to Firefox's native AI (default: 10,000). Prevents 400 errors and other limits when summarizing large pages.

Settings are saved locally in the browser using the `browser.storage` API.

## 4. Portability

The code is written using WebExtensions APIs, facilitating future adaptation to other browsers such as Google Chrome and Microsoft Edge with minimal source code changes.

## 5. File Structure and Key Components

The extension consists of the following main files:

*   **`manifest.json`**: The extension manifest file, defining metadata, permissions (including `storage` for settings and `tabs` for page URL access), and content script injection (`Readability.js`, `text_limiter.js`, and `content_script.js`) and styles (`reader.css`).
*   **`Readability.js`**: External library used for main page content extraction, replicating Firefox's "Reader Mode" functionality.
*   **`text_limiter.js`**: Utility for intelligently truncating text, limiting content size sent to Firefox's native AI. Keeps complete paragraphs when possible.
*   **`content_script.js`**: The main script injected into web pages. It coordinates content extraction via Readability, pagination, UI injection, and navigation logic.
*   **`options.html`**: The UI for extension settings, allowing users to define characters per page and AI limit.
*   **`options.js`**: Script managing options page logic, saving and loading user preferences via `browser.storage`.
*   **`options.css`**: Basic styles for the options page.
*   **`reader.css`**: Stylesheet dedicated to formatting extracted content in reading mode, ensuring a clean and focused visual experience.

## 6. Local Testing

### 6.1. Load the Extension in Firefox

1. **Open Firefox**
2. **Type in the address bar:** `about:debugging#/runtime/this-firefox`
3. **Click "Load Temporary Add-on..."**
4. **Navigate to the folder** containing the extension files
5. **Select the file** `manifest.json`
6. The extension will be temporarily loaded

### 6.2. Configure the Extension

1. On the `about:debugging` page, click **"Inspect"** next to the PageNexus extension
2. Or click the extensions icon in the toolbar and select **"Manage Extension"**
3. Click **"Options"** or **"Preferences"**
4. Configure:
   - **Characters per page:** 2500 (default) or adjust as preferred
   - **AI character limit:** 10000 (default) or adjust as needed

### 6.3. Test Features

#### Test Pagination
1. Open a long article (e.g., Wikipedia article)
2. The extension should automatically extract and paginate the content
3. Use "Next" and "Previous" buttons to navigate
4. Click "Restore Original" to return to the original page

#### Test with Firefox Native AI
1. Ensure Firefox's native AI is enabled
2. Open a long article
3. Activate PageNexus to paginate the content
4. Use Firefox's AI sidebar to summarize the current page
5. Content should be limited to the current page size

### 6.4. Debugging

**View extension logs:**
- Open Browser Console: `Ctrl+Shift+J` (Windows/Linux) or `Cmd+Shift+J` (Mac)
- Filter by `[PageNexus]` to see only extension logs

**Reload after changes:**
1. Go back to `about:debugging#/runtime/this-firefox`
2. Click **"Reload"** next to the extension
3. Or press `Ctrl+R` on the debugging page

### 6.5. Test Different Scenarios

| Scenario | Article Size | Expected Behavior |
|----------|--------------|-------------------|
| Small article | < 2,500 characters | No pagination, simple reading mode |
| Medium article | 2,500 - 10,000 characters | Paginated, AI receives full content |
| Large article | > 10,000 characters | Paginated, AI receives truncated content |
| Very large article | > 50,000 characters | Paginated, AI receives first ~10k characters |

### 6.6. Common Issues

**Extension won't load:**
- Check if `manifest.json` is correct
- Look for errors in the debugging console

**Pagination not working:**
- Check if the page has content extractable by Readability
- Some pages are not compatible (e.g., complex SPAs)

**AI still returns 400 error:**
- Reduce character limit in settings
- Try with a smaller page or navigate to a specific page
